---
layout: blog
title: YAWP! 1.4.0 Released
---

__YAWP!__ 1.4.0 is ready to roll and, among other minor improvements, it brings:

* Hierarchical APIs
* jQuery dependency removed
* Improved Action signature support

<!--more-->

# Hierarchical APIs

YAWP! has now a full hierarchical API mechanism. When designing your endpoint
models based on inheritance, it is now possible to design your feature
classes (actions, hooks, transformers, shields) to reutilize behavior through
inheritance too.

For instance, imagine we have the following endpoint inheritance:

~~~ java
public abstract class Vehicle<T> {
    @Id
    IdRef<T> id;
}

public class Car extends Vehicle<Car> {
}

public class Truck extends Vehicle<Truck> {
}

public class Airplane extends Vehicle<Airplane> {
}
~~~

Now imagine that we want an API to start/stop our vehicles. Let's assume that all
vehicles, with the exception of airplanes, have the same start/stop behavior.
To design those features with hierarchical APIs we only need to do the following:

~~~ java
public class VehicleStartStopAction<T extends Vehicle> extends Action<T> {
    @PUT
    public void start(IdRef<Vehicle> id) {
        // do something
    }
    @PUT
    public void stop(IdRef<Vehicle> id) {
        // do something
    }
}

public class AirplaneStartStopAction extends VehicleStartStopAction<Airplane> {
    @PUT
    public void start(IdRef<Airplane> id) {
        // do another something
    }
    @PUT
    public void stop(IdRef<Airplane> id) {
        // do another something
    }
}
~~~

Since __VehicleStartStopAction__ is not an abstract class, all vehicles will have the same
action routes. The following routes are all valid ones:

    PUT /api/cars/1/start
    PUT /api/trucks/1/start
    PUT /api/airplanes/1/start

    PUT /api/cars/1/stop
    PUT /api/trucks/1/stop
    PUT /api/airplanes/1/stop

Note that only the airplane's routes will have different functionality.

Finally, it is also possible to define global features (for all endpoints) if you target
your inheritance to the Object superclass. For instance, to create a [Shield](/guides/api/shields])
for all endpoints, we can create:

~~~ java
public class BaseShield<T> extends Shield<T> {

    @Override
    public void defaults() {
        allow();
    }
}
~~~

If you want to create a more specific Shield for an endpoint, just subclass the BaseShield.

# jQuery dependency removed

Thanks to (rsolci)[http://github.com/rsolci], the javascript client is now
self-contained and do not require jQuery anymore. Soon it will be available as a
npm package too.

# Improved Action signature support

The position of each [action](/guides/api/actions) method argument is not
relevant anymore. You can add them in any order you want without changing how the
API will work. For instance:

~~~ java
// this:
@POST
public Person addAddress(IdRef<Person> id, Address address) {
    person.setAddress(address);
    yawp.save(person);
}
// could also be:
@POST
public Person addAddress(Address address, IdRef<Person> id) {
    person.setAddress(address);
    yawp.save(person);
}
~~~
